                         3Com (R) Corporation
                      EtherDisk (R) Diskette for
                 The EtherLink 10 ISA (R) NIC Family
      Configuration and Diagnostic Program Instructions Summary


 Overview
 --------
 The configuration portion of the program allows you to change the
 configuration parameters for the NIC to fit the specific
 environment in which the NIC is installed.

 The diagnostic portion of the Configuration and Diagnostic Program is
 designed to make sure that the NIC is installed correctly and
 functioning properly in your computer.  The Group 1 tests check the
 physical components, connectors, and circuitry of the NIC and
 require only that the NIC be installed in the computer.  The Group 2
 tests check the NIC's ability to transmit data on the network and
 require that the NIC be connected to a loopback plug or to a network.
 The Group 3 tests check the NIC's ability to correctly transmit and
 receive data over the network and require that the adapter be connected
 to a network on which an echo server has been set up.

 The computer containing the NIC to be configured or tested must be
 running DOS only.

 NOTE:  If this computer is an operating server, notify all users of the
        server to save their work and log out from the network.  The
        Configuration and Diagnostic Program disrupts the normal operation
        of servers and workstations, so work that is not saved may be lost.

        Then shut down the server, and reboot with a DOS-only diskette.
        (This way no drivers or TSRs will be running when the program
        is started.)

 Starting the Configuration and Diagnostic Program
 --------------------------------------------------

 There are two ways to start the program:

 1.  Automatically, from the INSTALL.EXE program, by selecting the options
     in the Configuration and Diagnostic submenu.

 2.  Manually, from the root directory of the EtherDisk #2 diskette, by
     typing the following command:

     3C5X9CFG [command keyword] [parameter list]

     3C5X9CFG represents the 3Com Configuration and Diagnostic Program name.
     The brackets indicate that the command keyword and parameter list are
     optional.

     3C5X9CFG without any arguments invokes the program in full windows mode.
     This includes mouse support and context-sensitive help.  Press [F1] for
     help at any time.

     Command Line Keywords:
     ----------------------

     You can use the first two characters of any command or parameter
     as a shortcut.  For example, 3C5X9CFG HE RU means 3C5X9CFG HELP RUN.

     Also, the command keywords and parameters are not case-sensitive,
     so CONFIGURE, configure, and Configure, for example, will all work.

     CONFIGURE
         Configures a NIC in one of three ways.

         1.  automatically with the /auto parameter
         2.  using a specified NIC configuration file
         3.  using command line configuration parameters

     ECHOSERVER
         Enables a designated NIC to function as an echo server to
         support running Group 3 tests on other 3Com NICs.

     HELP
         Displays general or command-specific help information.  To get
         command-specific help, enter:

         3C5X9CFG HELP [command keyword]

     LANGUAGE
         Invokes the program in full windows mode using a specified external
         resource file.  This option provides support for multiple languages
         via a different resource file for each language supported.

     LIST
         Displays a list of installed NICs recognized by this program
         and their assigned NIC numbers.

     RUN
        Executes the diagnostic tests (which can also be specified from a
        file) on a selected NIC and writes the results to the screen,
        a file, or a printer.


 Configuration
 -------------

 The NIC can be configured in either full screen windows mode or command
 line mode.

    Full Screen Windows Mode
    ------------------------

    To configure the NIC using the full screen windowing, type:

    3C5X9CFG [Enter]

    Then select the Configure Adapter option in the Install pull-down menu.

    Command Line Mode
    -----------------

    Command Line Mode Defaults
    --------------------------

     Defaults:  CONFIGURE has /AUTO and /ADAPTERNUM:1 as defaults.  So for
     example, if only  "3c5x9cfg configure" is used, adapter number 1 will
     be auto configured.

     ADAPTERNUM:N and /SLOT:S parameters can be used with any of the
     CONFIGURE options that follow.  They are both intended for use whenever
     multiple NICs are present in the computer and recognized by the
     Configuration and Diagnostic Program.

     /ADAPTERNUM:N specifies the NIC number to be configured for ISA
     computers.  Run the LIST command separately to determine the NIC
     number to use here.

     /SLOT:S specifies the physical slot number of the NIC to be configured
     in EISA and MCA computers.

     /PNPRST is an option to which can be used to bring a 3C509B out of the
     Plug 'n Play wait for key state so the NIC can be reconfigured. The
     symptom is the configuration and diagnostic program cannot find a 3C509B
     ISA NIC in a computer.  The root cause is the computer BIOS writes
     a byte to the parallel port status register.  This byte looks like the
     first byte of the Plug 'n Play identification sequence.  The 3C509B will
     then wait for the remaining bytes of the sequence, and will not respond
     to normal inquiries.  The PNPRST option causes the configuration and
     diagnostic program to issue several byte to the parallel port status
     register, which returns the 509B to it's normal operating mode.

    There are three different ways to configure the NIC using command
    line mode.

    1.  Command Line with Auto Configuration
    2.  Command Line with Explicit Parameters
    3.  Command Line with Configuration File

    Command Line with Auto Configuration
    ------------------------------------

    Command syntax:  3C5X9CFG CONFIGURE  /AUTO

    The /AUTO parameter configures the NIC automatically based on the
    software's best estimate using interpreted system information.
    This parameter sets the I/O Base Address, Interrupt, and Transceiver
    options. All other option settings are left unchanged.

    NOTE:  The program will attempt to detect what Transceiver is being
    used, to set the Transceiver setting.  Therefore connect to the network
    first, then run /AUTO, and it will configure the Transceiver for you.


    Command Line with Auto Configuration
    ------------------------------------
    Command syntax:  3C5X9CFG CONFIGURE  /AUTO

    The /AUTO parameter configures the adapter media type
    automatically.  All other options settings are left unchanged.

    NOTE:  The program attempts to detect what media type is being
           used.  Therefore, connect to the network first and then run
           3C5X9CFG CONFIGURE /AUTO.  The program will configure the
           media type for you.

    Command Line with Explicit Parameters
    -------------------------------------

    Command syntax:  3C5X9CFG CONFIGURE  [ /INT:N  /IOBASE:N  /PORT:N
                     /BSIZE:N  /BADDRESS:N   /MODEM:N  /XCVR:N  /TR:N
                     /OPTIMIZE:N  /LINKBEAT:N  /CONFIGPORT:N  /PNP:N
                     /SYNCREADY:N /FULLDUPLEX:N]

    Command line configuration parameters are used to configure the NIC
    using only the option settings you specify.  Some parameters are for
    all NICs, some are for ISA only, and some are for EISA and MCA only.
    For example, /int:N is an ISA-only parameter, because with EISA and
    MCA NICs, the computer vendor's configuration utility or option
    diskette handles the setting of the interrupt level.  In most cases, any
    combination of parameters can be used.  Therefore it is possible to modify
    only a few settings if needed.

    /INT - Interrupt Level   (ISA only)
           Possible values - 3,5,7,9,10,11,12,15

    /IOBASE (or /PORT) - I/O Base Address   (ISA only)
            Possible values - EISA (to change to EISA mode)
            or 200-3E0 in increments of 10

    /BSIZE - Boot PROM Size  (ISA only)
             Possible values - 8,16,32,disabled

    /BADDRESS - Boot PROM Address  (ISA only)
             Note:  For use only when /BSIZE is enabled
             Possible values - C2000-DE000, the range allowed
             depends on the size selected with /BSIZE.

    /MODEM - Modem Speed (Interrupt Disable Time)
             Possible values -
             Custom Disable Time Method:  25-1600, in increments of 25
             Modem Speed Method:  None, 1200, 2400, 9600, 19200, 38400

             If no modem or other critical serial device is being used, then
             specify 1600 disable time for best performance.  If a modem is
             present, reduce the value until performance of both the modem
             and EtherLink 10 ISA NIC are acceptable to you.  If the computer
             has a 16550 buffered serial UART, you can set the modem speed
             below the actual serial line speed because the UART can buffer
             characters, relaxing the need for critical interrupt response.

     /TR (or /XCVR) - Transceiver  (ISA only)
             Possible values - TP, COAX, AUI, EXTERNAL (same as AUI)

     /OPTIMIZE - Network Driver Optimization
             Possible values - DOS, Windows, OS/2, server

     /LINKBEAT - Link beat disable/enable  (pre-10BASE-T standard only)
             Possible values - disabled, enabled

             NOTE:  Try this setting ONLY if pre-10BASE-T standard hubs
                    are in use.

     /CONFIGPORT -  (ISA only)  Configport is a value the Configuration
             and Diagnostic Program uses internally to search for ISA NICs.

             Possible values - 100-1E0, in increments of 10.

             NOTE: Try this setting ONLY if a problem occurs in bringing up
             the program in an ISA computer.  (The 3Com internal default
             configport of 110 may not work if some other device is using
             that address.)

             NOTE: If only this parameter is used, ie. "3c5x9cfg configure
             /configport:1B0," and no other configuration parameters, the
             program will try the default configuration parameter, "/auto"
             to configure the NIC.

      /PNP - (3C509B only) PNP controls the ability of the 3C509B to
             respond to an ISA bus Plug 'n Play identification.

             Possible values - ENABLED or DISABLED

             ENABLED allows the NIC to respond to a Plug 'n Play
             identification.  DISABLED does not allow the 509B to respond
             to a Plug 'n Play identification.

      /SYNCREADY - (3C509B only) Forces the NIC to insert a wait state
             on each I/O cycle.  Setting this option may allow the 509B to
             work in computers with marginal ISA I/O bus timing.

             Possible values - ENABLED or DISABLED

             ENABLED adds a wait state to each I/O bus cycle.  DISABLED
             allows the bus to run at full speed.

      /FULLDUPLEX - (3C509B only) enables/disables Full Duplex network
             operation.  Possible values - ENABLED, DISABLED

             NOTE:  This setting can ONLY be enabled when the NICs
                    transceiver setting is forced to 10BaseT operation.         
                    Full duplex should be enabled ONLY when connected to a
                    switch port that supports full duplex.  The switch port
                    must also be forced to full duplex, referring to the
                    switch documentation for doing this.  Otherwise,
                    operating the NIC in full duplex mode on a half duplex
                    hub or repeater may cause network problems.


   Command Line with Configuration File
   ------------------------------------

   Command syntax:  3C5X9CFG CONFIGURE  /CONFIGFILE:filename

   /CONFIGFILE:filename is used to configure an NIC with the settings
   specified in an ASCII configuration file that can be created and modified
   by any text editor.  The filename can be a fully qualified DOS filename
   including a path.  A standard format for the file must be used, as
   follows:

      -  Variable names and values match the wording in the full-screen
         configure window in most cases.

      -  Begin each variable/value line with an "at" symbol (@), followed by
         a variable name, a colon (:), and the value.

              Example:  @I/O base address:300

      -  Blank lines and other white spaces are allowed between variable
         lines.

      -  Start any comment lines with a semicolon (;).

      -  The variable names allowed are:
              I/O base address
              Interrupt request level
              Boot PROM size
              Boot PROM base address
              Transceiver type
              Network driver optimization
              Maximum interrupt disable time
              Link beat
              Full duplex

      -  The values allowed are the same as those shown in the full-screen
         configure window.

              Example 1:  @Network driver optimization:Windows or OS/2 Client
              Example 2:  @Transceiver type:On-board Coax

              The one exception to this rule is the Maximum Interrupt Disable
              Time setting, which is used in place of Modem Speed.  The
              values are in microseconds.  Possible values are 25-1600, in
              increments of 25.

              Example:  @Maximum interrupt disable time:1600 microseconds


 Diagnostic
 ----------

 Full Screen Windows Mode
 ------------------------

   To run the diagnostic tests using the full screen windowing, type:

   3C5X9CFG [ENTER]

   Then select the Run Tests option in the Tests pull-down menu.

 Command Line Option - RUN
 -------------------------

   Command syntax:  3C5X9CFG RUN  [/TESTFILE:filename] [/RESULTS:[filename
                    | PRN | PRNHP]] [/ADAPTERNUM:N | /SLOT:S]

   The RUN parameter executes the diagnostic tests on a selected NIC
   and displays the results on the screen.  The defaults are adapter number
   1 and Group 1 tests.  The parameters below are all optional.

   /TESTFILE:filename specifies a test file that contains a specific test
    setup description.

   /RESULTS:[filename or PRN or PRNHP] specifies an alternative location to
    store the test results.  This location can be a DOS path and filename,
    PRN printer port (same as LPT1), or PRNHP, which is an HP LaserJet
    printer connected to LPT1.

   /ADAPTERNUM:N specifies the adapter number to be tested, in the case of
    multiple NICs installed in the computer and recognized by this
    program.  Run the LIST command separately (see LIST below) to determine
    the adapter number to use.

   /SLOT:S specifies the physical slot number of the NIC to be tested
    when multiple NICs are installed in EISA and MCA computers.


 Other Command Line Options
 --------------------------

   HELP

   Command syntax:  3C5X9CFG HELP  [Command Keyword]

   HELP is an on-line summary of commands.  Without a command keyword,
   it gives a summary of the command keywords.  With a command keyword
   specified, it gives the parameter choices for that particular command.
   For example, "3C5X9CFG HELP CONFIGURE" gives details about the parameter
   options for the CONFIGURE command.

   LANGUAGE

   Command syntax:  3C5X9CFG LANGUAGE  /LANGFILE:filename

   LANGUAGE invokes the program in full windows mode using a specified
   external resource file.  This option provides support for multiple
   languages via a different resource file for each language supported.

   /LANGFILE:filename is a required parameter with this command.
   The filename is the name of the resource file that is loaded by the
   program.  The filename can be a fully qualified DOS filename.

   NOTE: At this time, there are no alternate resource files included on
         the EtherDisk diskette.

   LIST

   Command syntax:  3C5X9CFG LIST

   LIST displays a list of currently installed NICs (and their assigned
   adapter numbers) that are recognized by this program. The adapter number
   is then used as the N value for the /ADAPTERNUM:N parameter when multiple
   NICs are installed.  There are no parameters associated with the LIST
   command keyword.

   ECHOSERVER

   Command syntax:  3C5X9CFG ECHOSERVER  [/ADAPTERNUM:N | /SLOT:S]

   ECHOSERVER enables the NIC to function as an echo server.
   /ADAPTERNUM:N specifies the adapter number to be configured in the echo
   server, in the case of multiple NICs.  /SLOT:S is available only on
   EISA or MCA computers, and refers to the physical slot in the echo server
   where the NIC is located.


 Further Assistance
 ------------------

 If the NIC fails any of the diagnostic tests, see the TROUBLE.TXT file
 in the \HELP directory on the EtherDisk #2 diskette for troubleshooting
 procedures.

 The SUPPORT.TXT file in the \HELP subdirectory on the EtherDisk #2 diskette
 provides information about obtaining product support for the NIC.

 3Com, EtherDisk, and EtherLink are registered trademarks of 3Com
 Corporation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective
 owners.

(%VER  Configuration and Diagnostic Program Instructions Summary v6.1a)
