                        3Com (R) Corporation
                     EtherDisk (R) Diskette for
                   The EtherLink 10 ISA NIC Family
        Installing a NIC in a NetWare 16-Bit DOS ODI Client


This section describes how to install the driver for a 16-bit NetWare client
running DOS.

NOTE: If only one NIC has been installed, you may use the 3Com
      Intelligent Auto Install software program to automatically install the
      NetWare DOS ODI client software, including the driver, and to modify
      the CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT files.

To use the Intelligent Auto Install program, the computer must meet these
requirements:

1.  Use Novell NetWare 3.12, 4.1 or 4.11 network operating system

2.  Have only one 3Com EtherLink 10 ISA (3C5X9) Parallel Tasking NIC
    installed

3.  Be intended for use as a NetWare DOS ODI client


Installing the Driver for One NIC
-------------------------------------
If only one NIC is installed, use the Intelligent Auto Install program to
install the driver automatically, as follows:

1.  Make sure the NIC is installed and connected to the network.

2.  Boot the computer under DOS.

3.  Insert the EtherDisk #2 diskette in drive A and type the following at
    the DOS prompt:

    A:\COMSLINK [Enter]

4.  The first time you use the EtherDisk diskette, the 3Com software
    license appears. To accept its terms, type Y. (To view all the license
    text, press [F1].)

    Several messages appear while the Intelligent Auto Install program is
    running.  A final message indicates successful installation.

    NOTE: If a problem occurs when the Intelligent Auto Install program runs,
          view or print the COMSLINK.LOG file located on your C:\ directory
          to determine which event may have caused the problem.

5.  When installation is complete, you will be asked if you want to reboot
    the computer. For the installation to be effective, remove the
    EtherDisk diskette and reboot the computer. You will be prompted for
    your user name and password.

6.  If you are using Windows or Windows for Workgroup on this computer, you
    may also need to install the Novell Windows support software, which can
    be obtained from Novell.


Installing the Driver for Multiple NICs
-------------------------------------------
NOTE: Use multiple NICs in a client computer only if you plan to run
      multiple protocols or connect to more than one network. For
      information on multiple protocols, see the documentation provided
      with your operating system.

To install the driver and NICs for a client computer running DOS in a
Novell NetWare environment, proceed as follows:

1.  Turn the computer off. Install the first NIC and connect it to the
    network.

2.  Turn the computer on and install the driver for the first NIC with
    the Intelligent Auto Install program (see the above section for
    instructions).  Be sure to remove the EtherDisk diskette after
    installation is finished.

3.  Turn the computer off again, install the second NIC, and connect
    it to the network.

4.  Proceed as follows:

    -  If the computer is running a version of DOS below 6.x, boot it from
       a DOS diskette that does not contain drivers.

    -  If the computer is running DOS version 6.x, turn it on and press [F5]
       when DOS loads, after the "Starting MS-DOS..." message.  This
       prevents any drivers or memory managers from loading.

 5.  Insert the EtherDisk #2 diskette in drive A, and type the following
     at the DOS prompt:

     A:\INSTALL [Enter]

 6.  On the main menu, select Configuration and Diagnostic Program and
     press [Enter].

 7.  In the list of NICs, find the port or slot number of the two NICs
     you just installed.  Write down the numbers in a place where you can
     refer to them later, and press [Esc] to quit the program.

 8.  Access the C:\NWCLIENT directory and open the NET.CFG file.  Type:

     EDIT NET.CFG [Enter]

 9.  Scroll through the file to the LINK DRIVER 3C5X9 section and locate
     the following line:

     LINK DRIVER 3C5X9

 10. Following this line, add a line PORT = XXX or SLOT = Y.  The port
     address is a hexadecimal I/O address.  SLOT is a decimal bus slot
     number.  Use PORT for the 3C509 NICs in ISA mode and SLOT for 3C509
     NICs in EISA or PnP mode.

 11. Following the second LINK DRIVER 3C5X9 repeat step 10 and add the PORT
     or SLOT number for the second NIC.

 12. When you are done, reboot the computer.


            (%VER NWDOSODI.TXT - NetWare DOS ODI Client V6.1a)
