                             3Com (R) Corporation
                          EtherDisk (R) Diskette for
                       The EtherLink 10 ISA NIC Family
                             Troubleshooting



 If the NIC diagnostic tests fail, the NIC might not be defective.  Check
 the following:

 1.  Make sure that the NIC is completely seated in its slot.  Review
     the installation instructions in the appropriate NIC guide.

 2.  If you are running the Group 2 test using the DOS based diagnostic,
     make sure that the NIC is securely connected to a loopback plug or to
     a properly cabled coax network.

 3.  If you are running the Group 3 test using the DOS based diagnostic or
     the network test using the Windows installer or diagnotic, make sure
     that the NIC is securely connected to a properly cabled network and an
     echo server is set up on the network.

 4.  If you are configuring the I/O base address, interrupt request level,
     or boot PROM base address, make sure that the settings you choose for
     these parameters do not conflict with any other peripheral or software
     program installed in the computer.  For a list of system resources
     commonly used by other peripherals, select "Commonly used interrupt
     and I/O base addresses" from the "Configuration and Diagnostic"
     submenu.

 5.  Make sure that the configuration setting for the transceiver type is
     correct.

 6.  Running Group 2 tests in the DOS based diagnostic while connected to an
     active network can cause intermittent failures.  These failures can be
     avoided by using a loopback plug or by connecting to an inactive network
     on which only the computer being tested is operating.

 7.  If you installed a twisted-pair NIC, check the LED on the backplate
     of the adapter.  The LED should be checked only during or after the
     diagnostic tests have been run.  The LED will be on when there is a
     proper connection between the NIC and the hub.  The LED will flash if
     the polarity of the connection is reversed.

 8.  The slot in the computer may be defective.  Install the NIC in
     another slot and run the tests again.

 9.  The computer in which the NIC is installed might be defective.
     Install the NIC in a known functioning computer and run the tests
     again.

 10. The loopback plug you are using might be defective.  Try a different
     loopback plug.

 11. Replace the failed NIC with a known working NIC, with the same
     configuration.  If the second NIC fails, something is probably wrong
     with the computer, not with the NIC.

     (%VER  TROUBLE.TXT - Troubleshooting tips v6.1a)

