                        3Com (R) Corporation
                     EtherDisk (R) Diskette for
                   The EtherLink 10 ISA NIC Family
               NDIS 3.0/4.0 drivers for Windows 95/98


The NDIS 3.0/4.0 drivers for Windows 95/98 are 32-bit protect-mode miniport
drivers.  The driver names are ELNK3ND3.SYS and ELNK3ND4.SYS.  These drivers
are replacement drivers for the Windows 95/98 native driver full port NDIS 3
driver, called ELNK3.VXD (ELNK3.SYS for Windows 98).  Both drivers work on
all adapters in the 3C5X9 EtherLink 10 ISA product family.   However, only
the 3Com driver provides installation support for the 3C509B-TPC NIC.

This installation information is divided into 3 different categories:

I.   New Installation.  This is where the adapter is going to be installed 
     into a machine where the operating system is already loaded.

II.  Updating an existing installation installed with the drivers for the
     3C509B from EtherDisk v6.0x.  These instructions are for users that
     currently have the drivers installed from EtherDisk v6.0x for the 3C509B.
     If you are not sure of the version of the drivers currently installed, 
     check in the Network Setup and if the NIC has the 3Com "TCAATDI Diagnostic 
     TDI" and the NIC is referred to as the EtherLink III then the EtherDisk v6.0x 
     drivers are installed on your system and you should follow this procedure for 
     updating.

III. Updating an existing installation that is installed with the drivers
     from EtherDisk v5.1 or earlier for the 3C509B or installations using
     the native drivers for the 3C509B provided by MicroSoft in Windows 95/98.
     IMPORTANT: These instructions will only apply to the 3C509B when configured
     for Plug 'n' Play mode.  If the 3C509 is configured for legacy mode then
     follow the procedures outlined in section II for updating.

IV.  Installing/Updating drivers for a 3C509/3C509B configured for legacy mode.
     This section is for users of the 3C509 or for the 3C509B configured for
     legacy mode via the diagnostic utility.

NOTE: The EtherLink 10 ISA (3C509B), formerly known as the EtherLink III ISA
has gone thru a product name change.  All references to EtherLink 10 ISA
are synonymous with EtherLink III and should be treated as such.


I.  New Installation of the 3C509B with Windows 95/98
-----------------------------------------------------
1.  Before installing the NIC into the system, run the PREINSTL.EXE utility
    from EtherDisk #2.  Refer to documentation for running this utility.

2.  After the installer has run successfully power down the system and
    physically install the NIC in the PC.

3.  You will get a prompt that says New Hardware Found...  Then the Update
    Device Driver Wizard states it will complete the installation of the
    3Com 3C509B EtherLink III.  Insert the EtherDisk #1 in drive A: and
    press NEXT to continue.  For Windows 98 users they will receive a prompt
    from Add New Hardware Wizard for where to get the drivers, select "Search
    for the best driver for your device (Recommended)."  The wizard will give
    a list of search locations for the drivers, make sure floppy disk drives
    is the only option selected.

4.  The wizard will say "Windows found the following updated driver for this
    device: 3Com EtherLink 10 ISA...".  Press the FINISH/NEXT button at this
    point.  For Windows 95 users depending upon the version of Windows 95, you 
    may be prompted to select for option "Disk provided by manufacturer", if 
    this is the case select that option and press OK to continue.

5.  The installation will ask for the '3Com EtherDisk for EtherLink 10 ISA
    Family Adapters (Disk 1)".  Click OK.  If the installation can't find
    the files, change it so it looks to the A: drive.  Answer any prompts for 
    any network settings that may be required during the installation.

6.  The 3Com Installation Wizard will execute.  It has 3 options: Express
    installation, Custom installation, and skip the install wizard.  The
    recommended option is the express method, this does basic diagnostics
    and connectivity tests.  The custom method is for users that need to
    do repeated installations or if the adapter is configured for legacy mode.  
    These instructions refer to the express install.  Please note errors may 
    occur if not connected to the network, or if there is no TCP/IP on the 
    network; this is normal.

7.  Eventually the 3Com Installation Wizard will complete.  Press the FINISH
    button to continue.

8.  The install will continue to copy files.  When prompted for the
    Windows 95/98 source media files, change the copy files to the
    location where the files are, for example:

    D:\WIN95  or  D:\WIN98  -> Typical for CD-ROM users
    C:\WINDOWS\CATROOT -> Typical location for Windows 98
    C:\WINDOWS\OPTIONS\CAB -> Possible location in Windows 95

9.  Then a prompt will appear saying setup has finished and you must restart
    for the changes to take effect.  Press YES to restart the computer.


II.  Updating an Existing Installation of EtherDisk v6.0x in Windows 95/98
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
These instructions apply to users upgrading from the EtherDisk v6.0x driver
set.  See above for details in determining if the 6.0x drivers are installed
for the 3C509B.

1.  Choose Start Menu, Settings, Control panel, and double-click the Network
    icon.

2.  Highlight the EtherLink III ISA adapter and click on REMOVE.  Before
    removing the device you may want to take note of any important network
    configuration, such as: TCP/IP settings, NDS settings, etc.  Then
    press OK.

3.  IMPORTANT: A dialogue box will appear stating systems settings have
    changed you need to restart.  Press NO at this point.

4.  Take the second diskette of EtherDisk v6.1 and put it in the A: drive.

5.  Run the utility PREINSTL.EXE.  Refer to documentation on running the
    pre-installer utility.  Do not run this utility if the NIC has not been
    removed, which should have been done in step 2.

6.  Continue with Step 4 of instuctions for a "New Installation", located
    at the top part of this document.


III. Updating an Older Installation of the 3C509B drivers in Windows 95/98
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
IMPORTANT: These instructions will only work if you are running Windows 95
Service Release 2 (build 950B) or later, or Windows 98 and if the NIC is in 
Plug n' Play mode.  For updating an existing installation of Windows 95 retail 
follow the directions in "Updating an Existing Installation of EtherDisk v6.0x"
above.  IMPORTANT:  These instructions are for users updating from EtherDisk v5.1x 
or earlier, or updating from the native driver provided in Windows 95/98 for the 
3C509.  If updating from EtherDisk v6.0x use the instructions above in the
section, "Updating an Existing Installation of EtherDisk v6.0x".


1.  Double-Click on the System Control Panel in your Control Panel Folder.

2.  Click on the Device Manager Tab at the top of the window.

3.  Double-Click on Network Adapters.

4.  Double Click on The 3Com EtherLink III NIC.  

5.  Click on the Driver Tab at the top of the Window, at the properties for
    the 3Com EtherLink III.

6.  Click the Update Driver... button.

7.  For Win95 users select "No, select driver from list", then click Next.  For
    Win98 users the Update Device Driver Wizard will appear, click NEXT.  Then
    select "Display list of all the drivers in a specific location..." and then
    click NEXT.

8.  Click Have Disk..., Insert the 3Com EtherDisk for EtherLink 10 ISA
    Family Adapters (Disk 1) into the A: drive and click OK.

9.  Select the Card you have and then Click OK.  Answer any more dialogue
    prompts if they occur.  For Windows 98 users you will receive a prompt from
    the Update Device Driver Wizard that states Windows is now ready to install 
    the selected driver for this device.  Press NEXT to continue.

10. Next, the 3Com installation program will run.  IMPORTANT: You MUST select the 
    "Skip the 3Com Installation Wizard" option at this point, failure to do so will 
    cause the system to hang as noted above.  The installation wizard is not 
    intended for upgrade installations.

11. After the update procedure is over you must reboot your system to
    load the new driver.


IV.  Installing/Updating for 3C509 or 3C509B in legacy mode in Windows 95/98
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
These instructions are for installing (fresh installation) or upgrading drivers
for the 3C509 or 3C509B configured for legacy mode.

The drivers can not be directly updated when in legacy mode, the device must 
first be uninstalled.  If updating start at Step 1; otherwise from a new installation
of a 3C509/3C509B in legacy mode skip to Step 4.

1.  Choose Start Menu, Settings, Control panel, and double-click the System
    icon.  Select the Device Manager tab.  

2.  Double click on Network Adapters, and highlight the 3Com EtherLink III ISA
    and press the REMOVE button.  At the Confirm Device Removal window clikc OK.

3.  After performing these steps a window will appear that says "System Settings
    Change, you must restart."  Press YES to restart.

4.  Choose Start Menu, Settings, Control panel, and double-click the Add New
    Hardware icon.  

5.  The Add New Hardware Wizard windows will appear.  It states "This wizards installs
    the software for a new hardware device."  Click NEXT at this prompt.

6.  A prompt for Windows to search or any new Plug and Play device appears.  Click
    NEXT at this prompt.  This prompt will not appear for Windows 95 users, proceed
    to Step 7.

7.  Another prompt will appear, for Win98 users stating: "Windows can now search for 
    hardware that is not Play and Play compatible..."  Select "No, I want to select the 
    hardware from a list." then click NEXT to proceed.

    For Win95 users the Add New Hardware Wizard will offer to search for your new
    hardware.  Click on the NO radial button, and press NEXT to continue.

8.  From the Hardware Types list select Network adapters and press NEXT to continue.

9.  A Select Device window will appear, click on "Have Disk..."  Put EtherDisk #1 in
    the floppy drive, point the copy file prompt to "A:\", and the click OK.  From the
    Models options choose the 3Com EtherLink 10 ISA (3C509\3C509B) in Legacy mode and
    press OK.

10. The Add New Hardware Wizard will bring up a windows that states: "Windows can install 
    your hardware, using the following settings."  IMPORTANT: These settings may not 
    necessarily match the IO Address settings of the 3C509/3C509B.  When installation is
    complete check these settings; otherwise you may experience problems with the Windows
    GUI diagnostic for the EtherLink 10 ISA.  See the FAQs in the README.TXT for details.
    Press NEXT to continue.

11. If prompted for the EtherDisk point the installation to the A: drive and continue.  
    Answer any other MicroSoft information prompts as they occur.

12. The installation wizard will come up.  The Express mode is not supported for legacy 
    devices.  At this point select "Skip the 3Com Installation Wizard", and press
    FINISH to continue.

13. The installation will continue to copy more files if necessary path to the appropriate 
    copy files location.  Eventually the Add New Hardware Wizard will state "Windows has 
    finished installing the necessary software to support your hardware."  Press FINISH, 
    and click YES to reboot.  This will complete the installation.

    
What To Do If Your Network Doesn't Work Properly
------------------------------------------------
If the network doesn't function correctly, check the network configuration
to see if the network has the proper components installed.  Check the device
manager to see if the NIC is functioning correctly.  To check the network
configuration, from the start button on the lower left, open the menu and
choose settings, control panel.  On the control panel, choose Network.

Examine the Configuration.  The default network setup for Windows 95 is the
following five components:  3Com EtherLink 10 ISA driver, IPX/SPX compatible
protocol, NetBEUI protocol, 3Com TCAATDI Diagnostic TDI, Client for Microsoft 
Networks, and Client for Novell Networks.  The default network setup for Windows 
98 is the following five components:  3Com EtherLink 10 ISA driver, Dial-Up 
Adapter, NetBEUI protocol, TCP/IP protocol, 3Com TCAATDI Diagnostic TDI, Client 
for Microsoft Networks, and Microsoft Family Logon.  If you chose to install 
TCP/IP in the custom configuration of the 3Com install, or you used the express 
install, then the TCP/IP stack will also be present.  If any components are missing, 
you can add them by pressing the add button.  Protocols can be added by pressing 
the "Add" button on the network menu, choosing Protocol on the next screen, and
pressing the Add button.  On the "Select Network Protocol" screen, choose
Microsoft on the left pane.  On the right pane, choose the protocol and
press OK.  Similarly, the clients can be added by choosing the Client on the
"Select Network Component" screen and pressing the Add button.  On the
"Select Network Client menu, choose Microsoft on the left pane, the Client
on the right pane, and press OK.  If you use the Client for NetWare Networks,
press the Properties button on the "Network" screen.   Enter the name of the
NetWare server you want to use in the "Preferred server" box and press OK.

When the configuration is correct, press the Identification tab in the
"Network" screen.  The computer name is your computer name to the network.
Make sure this is the name you want to use to log into the network and
connect to your server.  The Workgroup name is the group you will be closely
associated with on the network if you use peer group networking.  Peers can
see each other when they look in the network neighborhood.  The Computer
Description is visible to other members of your workgroup when they see you
in the network neighborhood.

Now press the OK button, and the network will be configured the way you
chose in the last few paragraphs. At the completion of this step, Windows 95/98
will prompt you to restart the computer.  Press the "Yes" button.  After the
computer restarts, the network is ready to use.

To check if the NIC is working correctly, double click the "System" icon in
the  control panel, then press the "Device Manager" tab.  Under the "Network
adapters" item, look at the "3Com EtherLink 10 ISA ..." entry.  If the NIC
has either a yellow exclamation mark or a red "X" through it, the NIC is not
working properly.  This error needs to be remedied.


Removing the installation
-------------------------
The correct way to remove an installation is to open the network control
panel, choose the "3Com EtherLink 10 ISA..." NIC, and press the Remove button.

If you attempt to remove the "3Com TCAATDI Diagnostic TDI", the NIC will
be removed, which causes the rest of the network components to be removed.
Running the 3Com NIC diagnostic without support of the TDI will result in
the system locking up.  The TDI is not an optional component that can be
removed.


Upgrading from Windows 95 to Windows 98 with the 3C509 Installed
----------------------------------------------------------------
When upgrading to Windows 98 from Windows 95, will cause the operating system
to install the native Windows 98 driver for the 3C509B.  This will occur
even if the latest drivers from 3Com are installed on the system.  To update
the drivers after this has occurred follow the instructions detailed in 
section III called "Updating an Older Installation of the 3C509B drivers in 
Windows 95/98".


Windows Custom Installations of Windows 95/98
---------------------------------------------
Do not install the EtherDisk 6.1 drivers at installation time when doing a
custom install.  If you need to do a custom install of Windows 95/98 let
Windows install the native drivers for the 3C509, and then update the drivers
using the procedure in this document called "Updating an Older Installation
of the 3C509B drivers in Windows 95/98" (section III).


Changing the NIC configuration
------------------------------
Care must be exercised when altering the NIC configuration settings after
installation.  Certain configuration changes can alter the way Windows 95/98
behaves after reboot.

Altering the Plug 'n Play setting

Changing the Plug 'n Play setting after installation will change the way
Windows 95/98 views the NIC.  If you change the setting to enable Plug 'n Play,
then just shut down, power cycle, and reboot the computer.  Windows 95/98 will
see the NIC is in Plug 'n Play mode and change its internal configuration to
use the NIC in Plug 'n Play mode.  However, changing the setting to disable
Plug 'n Play mode will result in the NIC not being found on the next reboot,
which renders the network unusable.  To fix this, shut down Windows 95/98, power
cycle the computer, and reboot.  After the computer reboots, open the control
panel and select the add new hardware icon.  The add new hardware wizard
starts, press the next button. The next screen prompts for "Do you want
Windows to search for new hardware?".  Click the "No" radio button and press
next. In the next screen, double click the Network Adapters item. On the
Select Device panel, choose 3Com on the left pane and "3Com EtherLink 10 ISA
(3C509/3C509B) in Legacy mode" on the right pane. Put EtherDisk #1 in the
floppy drive and press OK on the insert disk message. The system will now
read files from the EtherDisk.  Later, the Windows 95/98 Add New Hardware Wizard
will display the I/O setting chosen for the EtherLink 10 ISA.  Record this
number and press Next.  The 3Com installation diagnostic will run.  Press
Next on the first panel.  The second panel displays the NIC's configuration
settings.  Set the I/O base address to the number assigned by Windows 95/98
in the previous step.  Be sure the interrupt number chosen doesn't conflict
with another device in the computer. Press Next.  Continue the installation
until the "Installation Complete" screen appears, then press Finished. Now
press the Finish button on the Add New Hardware Wizard.  The System Settings
Change box will appear, prompting for a reboot.  Press the NO button.  Now
double click the network icon in the control panel. Select the "3Com EtherLink
10 ISA ... in PnP mode" and press Remove. Press the OK button on the Network
dialog box that pops up, then press the OK button on the Network configuration
menu.  Close the control panel, then shut down and reboot the system.  Your
network is now operational.


Hints
-----
1.  If an error message appears, saying that the .INF file cannot be found
    in the specified location, verify that the file actually exists. If the
    file is either W95EL5X9.INF or TCAATDI.INF these files can be located in
    the root directory of the 3Com EtherDisk diskette #1. 

    If it is missing, download the disk from 3Com's download sites, and
    make sure you expand it properly. Refer to the SUPPORT.TXT file on this
    disk for more information.

2.  Verify the NIC driver is working.  Open control panel-> system-> device
    manager.  Look at the network adapter.  If the EtherLink 10 ISA NIC is
    visible with a yellow exclamation mark, the driver was not able to
    get the NIC working.  This could be due to a resource conflict, i.e. the
    base address or interrupt is in conflict with another device or there is
    another device at I/O address 0x110.

    If the EtherLink 10 ISA NIC is visible with a red 'X', Windows 95/98 
    detection has the device disabled which may be the result of a serious 
    problem.  One example is all the interrupts were used prior to the NIC 
    installation, so Windows 95/98 cannot assign an interrupt to the NIC.

3.  In Windows 95/98 environments it is recommended that the 3C509B be 
    configured for Plug 'n' Play.  This can be done with the configuration/
    diagnostic program and the adapter is shipped with this setting enabled.


Windows 95/98 Peer-to-Peer Networking
-------------------------------------

General Overview

In a peer-to-peer network, a relationship exists between two or more "like"
computers.  Each computer may make portions of its devices (such as disk
drives, CD-ROM driver, and printers) available to other computers on the
network.  You can decide what to make available to other users.  When you
share a disk driver or folder, you also need to decide if you want to grant
other users the right to store and change information on your drive or
folder.

The general characteristics of a peer-to-peer network are:

The network provides the capability to share resources with any computer on
the network.  When you share resources, your computer acts as a server for
all other computers in the network while still retaining all it's capability
for your use.  In a server-based network, only the resources on the
dedicated server can be shared.

A peer to peer network is more difficult to administer than a server-based
network. Its flexible resource-sharing and lack of central management and
control make management difficult.

However, the network works with your existing equipment and does not require
the purchase of a dedicated server.  This lowers the cost of networking.


Peer-to-Peer Networking with Windows 95/98

Microsoft Windows 95/98 comes with a built in peer to peer network.  It
also supports a wide range of network environments and Network Software
vendors to work with dedicated networks.

To configure Windows 95/98 for peer-to-peer networking, follow the steps
below.

Install Windows 95/98 and configure the network as outlined in the previous
instructions in this document.  To use peer to peer networking, you must have
the Microsoft Network Client in your network configuration.

Before you can share resources on your computer, you need to add file and
print sharing capability to your network configuration.  To install file and
print sharing, do the following steps.

1.  Open the Control Panel window and select Network. Click on the Start
button on the Windows 95/98 Taskbar, select Settings, and then select Control
Panel. Double-click on the Network icon.

2. In the Network window, click Add...

3. Select Service from the list of Network Components and click Add...

4. Select Microsoft from the list of Manufacturers on the left column.

5. Select File and Printer Sharing for Microsoft Networks from the right
column.

6. Click OK.

7. Go back to the Network window and select the Identification tab.

8. Assign a Computer name that will identify you on the network.  This name
must be unique.

9. Assign a Workgroup name.  The workgroup name MUST be the same on all the
computers on your network whom you want to share information with.  More
than one workgroup may exist on a network, but members of a workgroup cannot
directly see members of a different workgroup.

10. Give a description of your computer. This description is what another
users sees when he browses the network from his computer.  It further
defines who you are on the network.

11.  When you are done entering this information click OK.

12. Click OK at the bottom of your Network window. Windows 95/98 will prompt
you for the location of the Windows 95/98 CD-ROM or diskettes containing the
files needed for sharing.  Assuming the CD-ROM is drive D: on your computer,
enter D:\WIN95 or D:\WIN98.

13.  When Windows 95/98 prompts you to shut down and reboot the computer,
click the Yes button.  After Windows 95/98 reboots, you are ready to share
resources.

14.  You can share a device by opening "My Computer" on your desktop and
clicking the right mouse button over each device you want to share.  From
the menu that appears, select "Sharing" properties for the device.  From
the menu that appears, pick a share name for the device, and click OK.  The
device is now shared.

15.  In a similar manner, you can share folders rather than an entire disk
drive.  Select a drive and click the left mouse button to open the drive.
Select the folder and click the right mouse button, and select "Sharing"
from the menu.  When the share menu opens, select a share name and select
the way you want to share the folder.  Read only means no user can write or
delete the files and folders in your shared folder.  Selection read and
write access gives other users permission to delete or change files and
folders.  For more detail, refer to your Microsoft Windows 95/98 manual on 
how to share resources with other computers on your network.



            (%VER W95NDIS3.TXT - NDIS 3.0/4.0 in Windows 95/98 v6.1b)
